content/blog/personal/the-importance-of-falling.mdx, before:

---
date: 2020-09-20T07:00:00Z
title: The importance of falling
released: false
tags: []

---
There's a cultural phenomena when fixated on success it also creates a sense of shame for failure. I believe this is one of the biggest mistakes we can make - to fear failure.

This has been something I've had convictions about for a while, but it wasn't until I was watching my son learn to walk that it hit me. You see, when we are young, we were constantly learning. Each day there was something new to discover or something to grow to do better. The thing is, you can't really have learning without failure. Failure is a critical step in the learning process. What I realized, when watching my son waddle around and then plop to the ground is nearly every attempt ended with a fall, not because he wasn't getting better but because he was always testing his limits. As we get older, many of the things we didn't know, we've now come to master. Moreover, with the myriad of mastered skills, many tend to learn less often and likewise rarely experience failure, at least that's the goal. Most adults prefer to do what they are good at and stay in their comfort zone, especially since by now it's often plenty big enough to accommodate everything they do on a daily basis.

Commit message:

Update from Forestry.io Danny Phillips updated content/blog/personal/the-importance-of-falling.mdx

content/blog/personal/the-importance-of-falling.mdx, after:

---
date: 2020-09-20T07:00:00Z
title: The importance of falling
released: false
tags: []

---
There's a cultural phenomena when fixated on success it also creates a sense of shame for failure. I believe this is one of the biggest mistakes we can make - to fear failure.

This has been something I've had convictions about for a while, but it wasn't until I was watching my son learn to walk that it hit me. You see, when we are young, we were constantly learning. Each day there was something new to discover or something to grow to do better. The thing is, you can't really have learning without failure. Failure is a critical step in the learning process. What I realized, when watching my son waddle around and then plop to the ground is nearly every attempt ended with a fall, not because he wasn't getting better but because he was always testing his limits. As we get older, many of the things we didn't know, we've now come to master. Moreover, with the myriad of mastered skills, many tend to learn less often and likewise rarely experience failure, at least that's the goal. Most adults prefer to do what they are good at and stay in their comfort zone, especially since by now it's often plenty big enough to accommodate everything they do on a daily basis. We’ve optimized our lives to minimize the potential for failure, yet still striving to maximize success. However, it’s a myth that those are conversely related and minimizing failure does not indeed increase success.

This is the “aha” moment I had with my son. As an adult, failure is often assumed to be the noise in my signal for success, when in fact, failure is the signal for growth and growth leads to greater success. Stop and think about it. When you fail, there is so much learning to be gained. Failure is a signal you are at the edge of something new. It’s a reminder you are pushing the limits of what’s possible. It’s an opportunity to learn what didn’t work so improvements can be made. Real success comes from those who fail, as they experience growth which leads to glory! 

This has changed my perspective of failure. I want to live in a way that optimizes for failing. Or to put it in the perspective of my 1 year olds, “I want to never stop falling! Because each fall is insight and a reminder I’m on the edge of glory!”
